#summary Migration Steps when Switching from iBATIS to MyBatis

== Introduction ==

!MyBatis is a direct fork of the iBATIS code.  At the time of this writing, the code is identical, but there are no
known plans to continue the iBATIS project within the Apache software foundation. Therefore it is somewhat less of a
fork, and more like a bend in the road.  As with a corner when driving, there is a slight adjustment to be made.

== Questions ==

  * *Do I have to change my code?*

     No.  Initially the !MyBatis releases will be fully backward compatible.  We have
     no intention to ever change the package name (maybe in version 4 someday).  The only think that may need to be
     changed in the not to distant future is the DTD location.  Instructions are below.  Don't worry though, your
     code won't explode if you don't.  It will just mean you can't use some of the newer features in the future until
     you do.

== Steps ==

There are only a few simple steps to follow, some to do now, and some to do when you're ready.

  # Sign up for new mailing lists *(NOW)*
  # Use the new issue tracker and wiki *(NOW)*
  # Change bookmarks / links to our site *(NOW)*
  # Download new build (when you need your next build)
  # Change DTD/Doctype in XML Headers (at your next opportunity)

=== 1. Mailing Lists ===

First, unsubscribe from the old mailing lists by sending an email to each one that you are signed up for.

Most users of the Java framework will only be signed up for the user list.

  * [mailto:user-java-unsubscribe@ibatis.apache.org] - Java User List
  * [mailto:dev-unsubscribe@ibatis.apache.org] - Developer List
  * [mailto:commits-unsubscribe@ibatis.apache.org] - Commits List

There are no replacements for the developer or commits lists.  Commits are easy to find with subversion or on the
[http://code.google.com/p/mybatis/source/list Source/Changes] tab of the Google Projects page

Now you're ready to sign up to the new !MyBatis Google Group.  If you already have a Google Account, you won't
have much to do...

  * Log into Google (GMail, YouTube, etc.) or sign up if you don't have an account.
  * Then go to the group: [http://groups.google.com/group/mybatis-user]
  * Click join.

You can leave and re-join the group any time using the same page.  You can also search the group right there on the discussion
page.

=== 2. Issue Tracking and Wiki ===

The Google Code project site has a new unified wiki and issue tracker.  Please do not use the old Jira and Confluence
wiki pages.  We won't necessarily see any issues or comments posted there (recently due to an infrastructure change at the
ASF, all comments were lost on Confluence pages).

We've moved all of the open issues (all new featurs) for iBATIS 3 to the new Google Code issue tracker.

You can find the new Issue Tracker and Wiki here:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mybatis/issues/list Issue Tracker]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/mybatis/wiki/Welcome Wiki]

=== 3. Bookmarks and Links ===

Of course you don't want to be left with outdated or dead links.  So be sure to update your browser bookmarks
and any links to our site:

  * [http://www.mybatis.org] - Homepage
  * [http://code.google.com/p/mybatis/] - Google Code Project

=== 4. Update to the Latest Build ===

There's no need to do this immediately.  But when you're ready to upgrade to the latest release or the 3.0 GA release
of !MyBatis, you should do so from this site.  There are no known plans to release any further from the Apache site.

When the time comes, you'll find the new releases summarized here:

  * [http://mybatis.org/software.html] - software download page at mybatis.org

All future releases will be distributed via Google Code and archived here:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/mybatis/downloads/list] - Google Code project download page

=== 5. Update your DTD/Doctype Headers ===

Not yet, but soon!